README.md, before:

# Proxy

## Features

- **High Performance**: Built with Rust and Actix Web for optimal performance
- **SOCKS5 Support**: Can route traffic through SOCKS5 proxies for enhanced privacy and geo-bypass
- **HTTP/3 (QUIC) Support**: Prioritizes HTTP/3 with UDP for improved performance, falling back to HTTP/2/HTTP/1.1 when not available
- **IPv6 Priority**: Prefer IPv6 connections when available (disable with `IPV4_ONLY` environment variable)
- **Health Check Endpoint**: Provides `/health` endpoint for container monitoring
- **Prometheus Metrics**: Provides `/metrics` endpoint for monitoring and Grafana integration
- **Image Transcoding**: Optionally transcode images to WebP/AVIF to save bandwidth
- **Range Request Handling**: Properly handles HTTP range requests for media streaming
- **Caching Headers**: Preserves caching headers from upstream services
- **Cross-platform**: Runs anywhere Rust can compile to

## Architecture

This project acts as a reverse proxy that forwards requests to YouTube and other allowed domains, 
replacing the original host headers with the proxy server's address. This allows clients to 
bypass restrictions while maintaining proper functionality.

## Supported Domains

- youtube.com
- googlevideo.com
- ytimg.com
- ggpht.com
- googleusercontent.com
- lbryplayer.xyz
- odycdn.com
- ajay.app

## Configuration

### Environment Variables

- `BIND`: Address to bind the server to (default: `0.0.0.0:8080`)
- `UDS`: Set to `true` to use Unix Domain Socket instead of TCP
- `BIND_UNIX`: Path to Unix socket (default: `./socket/actix.sock`)
- `PROXY`: SOCKS5 proxy URL (e.g., `socks5://127.0.0.1:1080`)
- `PROXY_USER`: Username for proxy authentication
- `PROXY_PASS`: Password for proxy authentication
- `IPV4_ONLY`: Use IPv4 only (set to `true`)
- `HASH_SECRET`: Secret for URL hashing (requires `qhash` feature)
- `DISALLOW_IMAGE_TRANSCODING`: Disable image transcoding features

### Docker Setup

For a complete setup with Cloudflare WARP as a SOCKS5 proxy, see the [Docker documentation](DOCKER-README.md).

#### Quick Docker Compose Setup

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/javadalmasi/proxy.git
cd proxy

# Create necessary directories
mkdir -p warp/data

# Run with Docker Compose
docker-compose up -d
```

## Building from Source

### Prerequisites

- Rust 1.70+
- NASM assembler (for image processing features)

### Build Steps

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/javadalmasi/proxy.git
cd proxy

# Build the project (without HTTP/3 support by default)
cargo build --release

# Build the project with HTTP/3 support (requires unstable flag until HTTP/3 is stable in reqwest)
RUSTFLAGS='--cfg reqwest_unstable' cargo build --release --features http3

# Run the proxy
./target/release/piped-proxy

# Run the proxy with HTTP/3 support
RUSTFLAGS='--cfg reqwest_unstable' ./target/release/piped-proxy
```

## Monitoring and Health Checks

### Health Check Endpoint
The proxy provides a health check endpoint at `/health` that returns a JSON response:
```json
{
  "status": "healthy",
  "timestamp": 1234567890
}
```

### Metrics Endpoint
The proxy exposes Prometheus metrics at `/metrics` for monitoring and Grafana integration:
- Access metrics at `http://your-proxy-host:port/metrics`
- Metrics include request counts, response times, and active connections
- Compatible with Prometheus and Grafana for comprehensive monitoring dashboards

### Docker and Container Monitoring
When running in containers, the health check endpoint can be used for:
- Kubernetes liveness and readiness probes
- Docker health checks
- Container orchestrator monitoring

## Environment-Specific Deployment

### Running with a SOCKS5 Proxy

To route all traffic through a SOCKS5 proxy:

```bash
PROXY=socks5://127.0.0.1:1080 ./target/release/piped-proxy
```

### Production Deployment

For production use, consider:

1. Setting up HTTPS reverse proxy with Nginx or similar
2. Using systemd service for process management
3. Configuring firewall rules to restrict access
4. Monitoring resource usage

## GitHub Container Registry (GHCR)

Pre-built images are available on GHCR:

```bash
docker pull ghcr.io/javadalmasi/proxy:latest
```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request. For major changes, 
please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

## License

This project is licensed under the AGPLv3 license - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

Add performance optimizations for high concurrency
- Implement connection pooling with 100 idle connections per host
- Configure TCP keepalive and NODELAY for reduced latency
- Set max connections to 8192 with optimized timeouts
- Add num_cpus dependency to scale workers with CPU cores
- Configure server keep-alive and connection rate limits
- Optimize HTTP client for high concurrency scenarios
- Update documentation with performance improvements

README.md, after:

# Proxy

## Features

- **High Performance**: Built with Rust and Actix Web for optimal performance
- **High Concurrency**: Optimized for thousands of concurrent connections with connection pooling
- **SOCKS5 Support**: Can route traffic through SOCKS5 proxies for enhanced privacy and geo-bypass
- **HTTP/3 (QUIC) Support**: Prioritizes HTTP/3 with UDP for improved performance, falling back to HTTP/2/HTTP/1.1 when not available
- **IPv6 Priority**: Prefer IPv6 connections when available (disable with `IPV4_ONLY` environment variable)
- **Performance Optimizations**: TCP keepalive, connection pooling, and optimized HTTP settings for reduced latency
- **Health Check Endpoint**: Provides `/health` endpoint for container monitoring (always enabled)
- **Prometheus Metrics**: Provides `/metrics` endpoint for monitoring and Grafana integration (optional feature)
- **Image Transcoding**: Optionally transcode images to WebP/AVIF to save bandwidth
- **Range Request Handling**: Properly handles HTTP range requests for media streaming
- **Caching Headers**: Preserves caching headers from upstream services
- **Cross-platform**: Runs anywhere Rust can compile to

## Architecture

This project acts as a reverse proxy that forwards requests to YouTube and other allowed domains, 
replacing the original host headers with the proxy server's address. This allows clients to 
bypass restrictions while maintaining proper functionality.

## Supported Domains

- youtube.com
- googlevideo.com
- ytimg.com
- ggpht.com
- googleusercontent.com
- lbryplayer.xyz
- odycdn.com
- ajay.app

## Configuration

### Environment Variables

- `BIND`: Address to bind the server to (default: `0.0.0.0:8080`)
- `UDS`: Set to `true` to use Unix Domain Socket instead of TCP
- `BIND_UNIX`: Path to Unix socket (default: `./socket/actix.sock`)
- `PROXY`: SOCKS5 proxy URL (e.g., `socks5://127.0.0.1:1080`)
- `PROXY_USER`: Username for proxy authentication
- `PROXY_PASS`: Password for proxy authentication
- `IPV4_ONLY`: Use IPv4 only (set to `true`)
- `HASH_SECRET`: Secret for URL hashing (requires `qhash` feature)
- `DISALLOW_IMAGE_TRANSCODING`: Disable image transcoding features

### Docker Setup

For a complete setup with Cloudflare WARP as a SOCKS5 proxy, see the [Docker documentation](DOCKER-README.md).

#### Quick Docker Compose Setup

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/javadalmasi/proxy.git
cd proxy

# Create necessary directories
mkdir -p warp/data

# Run with Docker Compose
docker-compose up -d
```

## Building from Source

### Prerequisites

- Rust 1.70+
- NASM assembler (for image processing features)

### Build Steps

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/javadalmasi/proxy.git
cd proxy

# Build the project (without HTTP/3 support by default)
cargo build --release

# Build the project with HTTP/3 support (requires unstable flag until HTTP/3 is stable in reqwest)
RUSTFLAGS='--cfg reqwest_unstable' cargo build --release --features http3

# Run the proxy
./target/release/piped-proxy

# Run the proxy with HTTP/3 support
RUSTFLAGS='--cfg reqwest_unstable' ./target/release/piped-proxy
```

## Monitoring and Health Checks

### Health Check Endpoint
The proxy provides a health check endpoint at `/health` that returns a JSON response:
```json
{
  "status": "healthy",
  "timestamp": 1234567890
}
```
This endpoint is always available regardless of feature configuration.

### Metrics Endpoint (Optional)
The proxy can expose Prometheus metrics at `/metrics` for monitoring and Grafana integration when the `metrics` feature is enabled:
- Access metrics at `http://your-proxy-host:port/metrics` (only when metrics feature is enabled)
- Metrics include request counts, response times, and active connections
- Compatible with Prometheus and Grafana for comprehensive monitoring dashboards
- Enable with `--features metrics` during build

### Docker and Container Monitoring
When running in containers, the health check endpoint can be used for:
- Kubernetes liveness and readiness probes
- Docker health checks
- Container orchestrator monitoring

### Performance Tuning
The proxy is optimized for high concurrency with:
- Connection pooling (100 idle connections per host)
- TCP keepalive and NODELAY for low latency
- High connection limits (up to 8192 concurrent connections)
- Multiple worker threads based on CPU cores
- Optimized timeouts for connection reuse

### Build Options
- Default build: `cargo build` (health check only, no metrics)
- With metrics: `cargo build --features metrics`
- With HTTP/3: `RUSTFLAGS='--cfg reqwest_unstable' cargo build --features http3`
- With all features: `RUSTFLAGS='--cfg reqwest_unstable' cargo build --features http3,metrics`

## Environment-Specific Deployment

### Running with a SOCKS5 Proxy

To route all traffic through a SOCKS5 proxy:

```bash
PROXY=socks5://127.0.0.1:1080 ./target/release/piped-proxy
```

### Production Deployment

For production use, consider:

1. Setting up HTTPS reverse proxy with Nginx or similar
2. Using systemd service for process management
3. Configuring firewall rules to restrict access
4. Monitoring resource usage

## GitHub Container Registry (GHCR)

Pre-built images are available on GHCR:

```bash
docker pull ghcr.io/javadalmasi/proxy:latest
```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request. For major changes, 
please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

## License

This project is licensed under the AGPLv3 license - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
